---
draft: true
title: Mqtt Over Quic
categories:
  - Webtech
---
https://github.com/ngtcp2/ngtcp2

the shortcomings of TCP in IoT domains are as follows: (i) Connection startup latency is highly affected by the TCP handshake. This handshake requires 1 Round-Trip Time (RTT) for TCP and 2 or 3 RTTs when TLS (Transport Layer Security) is added to this protocol [11]. The overhead impact is even higher in IoT scenarios where unreliable wireless links cause frequent connection drops [12]. In these scenarios, imposing a high connection establishment overhead for the exchange of a small amount of data wastes the resources of devices. TCP Fast Open [13] seeks to address this problem by piggybacking data in SYN segments in repeated connections to the same server. This solution is not scalable since the TCP SYN segment can only fit a limited amount of data [14]. (ii) IoT devices are often mobile, and as such, supporting connection migration is an essential requirement [15]–[18]. However, any change in network parameters (such as IP address or port) breaks the connection. In this case, either the connection must be re-established, or a gateway is required to reroute the data flow. Unfortunately, these solutions increase communication delay and overhead, which might not be acceptable in mission-critical applications [18]. (iii) To preserve energy resources, IoT devices usually transition between sleep and awake states. In this case, a TCP connection cannot be kept open without employing keepalive packets. These keep-alive mechanisms, however, increase resource utilization and bandwidth consumption. Without an external keep-alive mechanism, IoT devices are obliged to reestablish connections every time they wake from the sleep mode. (iv) In disastrous events such as unexpected reboots or a device crash, TCP connections between client and server might end up out of state


A half-open connection consumes resources such as memory and processor time. In addition, it can impose serious threats such as SYN flooding [20], [21]. (v) 

If packets are dropped infrequently during a data flow, the receiver has to wait for dropped packets to be re-transmitted in order to complete the packet re-ordering. This phenomena, which impedes packet delivery performance, is called the head-of-line blocking [22]–[24].

MQTT [25] employs application layer keep-alive messages to keep the connection alive. This mechanism also enables MQTT to detect connection breakdown and release the resources.

These protocols usually include mechanisms to support reliability and block transmission (e.g., CoAP [26])

In order to address this concern, a lighter version of TLS for datagrams, named DTLS (Datagram Transport Layer Security) [28], has been introduced. Unlike TLS, DTLS does not require a reliable transport protocol as it can encrypt or decrypt out-of-order packets. Therefore, it can be used with UDP.


QUIC solves the numerous problems faced by other connection-oriented protocols such as TCP and SCTP [32]. Specifically, the addressed problems are: reducing the connection setup overhead, supporting multiplexing, removing the head-of-line blocking, supporting connection migration, and eliminating TCP half-open connections. 

QUIC executes a cryptographic handshake that reduces the overhead of connection establishment by employing known server credentials learned from past connections. In addition, QUIC reduces transport layer overhead by multiplexing several connections into a single connection pipeline. Furthermore, since QUIC uses UDP, it does not maintain connection status information in the transport layer. This protocol also eradicates the head-ofline blocking delays by applying a lightweight data-structure abstraction called streams.

A slow TCP draining stream can consume the entire receiver buffer. This can eventually block the sender from sending any data through the other streams. QUIC eliminates this problem by applying two levels of flow control: (i) Connection level flow control: limits the aggregate buffer that a sender can consume across all the streams on a receiver. (ii) Stream level flow control: limits the buffer per stream level. A QUIC receiver communicates the capability of receiving data by periodically advertising the absolute byte offset per stream in window update frames for sent, received, and delivered packets. QUIC incorporates a pluggable congestion control algorithm and provides a richer set of information than TCP [43]. For example, each packet (original or re-transmitted) carries a new Packet Number (PN). This enables the sender to distinguish between the re-transmitted and original ACKs, hence removing TCP’s re-transmission ambiguity problem. QUIC utilizes a NACK based mechanism, where two types of packets are reported. First, the largest observed packet number. Second, the unseen packets with a packet number lesser than that of the largest observed packet. A receive timestamp is also included in every newly-acked ACK frame. QUIC’s ACKs can also provide the delay between the receipt of a packet and its acknowledgement, which helps in calculating RTT. QUIC’s ACK frames support up to 256 NACK ranges in opposed to the TCP’s 3 NACK range [44]. This makes QUIC more resilient to packet reordering than TCP (with SACK). The congestion control algorithm of QUIC is based on TCP Reno to determine the pacing rate and congestion window size [44]. In addition, QUIC supports two congestion control algorithms: (i) Pacing Based Congestion Control Algorithm (PBCCA) [45], and (ii) TCP CUBIC [46]. The superior performance of QUIC’s flow control over TCP for HTTP traffic has been demonstrated in the literature [47].